I read through the manuscript over the WE and congratulations to all on this very important piece of work. The writing is crystal clear, it's very easy to follow given the level of technicality of the topic. "In order to obtain an unbiased R0 one need to use initial forward serial interval distribution under the renewal equation framework" is a key takeaway, and hopefully a practice modelers will adopt in the future. The different between initial forward serial interval and "late" forward serial interval is very striking. Using the serial intervals measured at the wrong time period will indeed lead to very large bias in R0. This have very important public health implications as well: for a emerging outbreak, one need to invest effort on intensive epidemiological investigation through contact tracing at least at the very beginning of the outbreak to be able to have a decent measure on the initial forward serial interval.

I have a few minor recommendations:

1. Equation (4), since the incubation period does not depend on generation interval (intrinsic biological process), but general interval could depend on incubation period, is it easier to define incubation period independently, and then define the generation interval with dependency on incubation? I think what you did is also good, but just took me a while to wrap my heads around on incubation period distribution k() as  a marginalized distribution of h()

2. Figure 2 (A), in terms of parameter rho in the epidemiological context, may I interpret it as the higher the rho value is, the less the pathogen is transmitting during the incubation period? It would be great to indicate some biological meaning on rho. BTW would you expect SARS-CoV-1 to have a positive value of rho, since SARS transmit exclusively after symptom onset? The rho value for SARS-CoV-2 would be lower I suspect.

3. line 214 "The mean forward generation interval decreases slightly as epidemic progresses..."  -> "The mean forward generation interval decreases slightly as incidence rate increases..." As incidence is a measurement in the rate of change in susceptible, this could make Figure 3C a bit easier to interpret.

4. Figure 3 (D) and (G), the dash line seems to indicate the initial forward serial interval distribution. However, do you think it's better to put the "intrinsic" serial interval here? "intrinsic" serial interval distribution can be obtained through sampling generation interval distribution, then sample "intrinsic" incubation period for both infector and infectee to get the onset time, thus the "intrinsic" serial interval distribution should have the same mean as the generation interval. The initial forward serial interval is longer than the "intrinsic" serial interval because of the backward incubation period is shorter than the intrinsic one. Thus, if we aggregate all primary cohort serial intervals through the course of the outbreak, we could still get the same distribution as the "intrinsic" serial interval?

5. For paragraph starting with line 239, maybe it's a bit easier to deliver the message as: "in order to have an unbiased estimate on R0 with equation (13), we need to use serial intervals distribution estimated based on primary cohort at the early stage of the epidemic (i.e. initial forward serial interval)".  What you've stated in this paragraph is totally accurate, I'm thinking it could be more approachable for the audience if you could directly point out what type of cohort and at what stage of the cohort need to be carried out for serial interval estimation in order to avoid bias in estimating R0.

6. Figure 5 is very interesting. For (A), I notice that serial interval estimated at the beginning of the outbreak is about 10 days. This is very similar to the generation interval we estimated in Hunan province after adjusting for censoring due to case isolation. In addition, the rapid decline of serial interval is likely not entirely due to cohort effect. Individual base intervention (which is very intensive outside Hubei province) will shorten the intrinsic generation interval as well.

7. In the context of COVID-19, both individual based intervention (isolation and quarantine) and population based intervention based intervention could further impact the serial interval distribution. Case isolation and quarantine will shorten the generation interval through transmission onwards. Social distancing will squeeze the contacts into the household, thus introduce high degree of clustering, which will shorten the generation interval as well (running out of susceptible within the household before the infectious period ends). This may add into the complexity that serial interval distribution will not be stationary and could change quite drastically throughout the epidemic. Maybe this is worth discussing a bit in the discussion section?